---
id: i88ru3k9
title: Animation model
file_version: 1.1.3
app_version: 1.12.1
---

<br/>

The `Animation` model is the top level model object in Lottie. An `Animation` holds all of the animation data backing a Lottie Animation. `Animations` are deserialized from JSON. Codable; see JSON schema

`Animation` is also fully `codable`. ==Animations can be decoded, and encoded to JSON!==

### **Loading Animation**

There are a variety of ways to load an `Animation` on its own. Additionally you can load an animation while allocating an `AnimationView` through one of the convenience initializers on `AnimationView`.

Animations can be stored in an `AnimationCacheProvider` to reduce the overhead of deserializing the same animations over and over.

<br/>

#### **Loading from a Bundle**

```
Animation.named(_ name: String, bundle: Bundle, subdirectory: String?, animationCache: AnimationCacheProvider?) -> Animation?
```

Loads an animation model from a bundle by its name. Returns `nil` if an animation is not found.

Parameters: : **name**: The name of the json file without the json extension. EG "StarAnimation" : **bundle**: The bundle in which the animation is located. Defaults to `Bundle.main` : **subdirectory**: A subdirectory in the bundle in which the animation is located. Optional. : **animationCache**: A cache for holding loaded animations. Optional.

Example:

```
/// Load from the main bundle.
let animation = Animation.named("StarAnimation")
/// Load from a specific bundle/
let animation = Animation.named("StarAnimation", bundle: myBundle)
/// Load from a subdirectory in a bundle.
let animation = Animation.named("StarAnimation", subdirectory: "Animations")
/// Load with an animation cache.
let animation = Animation.named("StarAnimation", animationCache: LRUAnimationCache.sharedCache)
```

#### **Loading from a Filepath**

```
Animation.filepath(_ filepath: String, animationCache: AnimationCacheProvider?) -> Animation?
```

Loads an animation model from an absolute filepath. Returns `nil` if an animation is not found.

Parameters: : **filepath**: The absolute filepath of the animation to load. EG "/User/Me/starAnimation.json" : **animationCache**: A cache for holding loaded animations. Optional.

Example:

```
let animation = Animation(filepathURL.path, animationCache: LRUAnimationCache.sharedCache)
```

<br/>

<br/>

This file was generated by Swimm. [Click here to view it in the app](https://swimm-web-app.web.app/repos/Z2l0aHViJTNBJTNBbG90dGllLWlvcyUzQSUzQXVzZXJ0ZXN0aW5nLXN3aW1t/docs/i88ru3k9).
